From where he sat in the crowded day-coach, Philip Trasks view was limited by the endlessly stretching eastern Colorado plains and the variety of people filling the car. He had quickly grown tired of the repetitive landscape outside the window, which featured diminishing prairie towns and isolated sod houses, evidence of expanding pioneer settlements. Now, only the vast, treeless plains remained, occasionally dotted by prairie-dog towns or fleeting antelope herds.

Born and raised in New England, Philip felt a pang of homesickness that sharpened his distaste for the primitive surroundings compared to the civilization he had left. A college student by choice, he regretted not finishing his degree and had moved from New Hampshire six months earlier in search of employment. The economic downturn of 1879 still affected the East, where physical labor was in demand, but not intellectual work.

During this time, an uncle of a college friend helped him secure a clerkship with the Kansas Pacific railway in Kansas City. After six months of routine work at an auditing desk, he faced the consolidation common in the rail industry of the time. Luckily, he was offered a position in either Omaha or Denver. With no strong reason, he chose Denver, partly hoping to find clues about his father, who had vanished years ago under suspicious circumstances.

Unable to get a sleeper car, Philip was surprised by the crowd headed to Colorado, drawn by news of a silver discovery in Leadville. Despite preferring books over newspapers, he couldnt ignore the chaos at Kansas City Union Depot. Managing to secure a seat in a day-coach, he found himself surrounded by boisterous treasure-seekers, which contrasted sharply with his reserved New England character.

Most passengers were men, and Philips seatmate was a rough, bearded man who thankfully kept to himself. Across the aisle, poker games and drinking were common sights. Philip felt sympathy for the few women on the train, especially a family that seemed out of place among the rowdy crowd. The family, which included a sick father whose appearance hinted at tuberculosis, was likely traveling to Colorado for health reasons.

Philips attention later shifted to the oldest daughter of the family when a menacing man took the seat next to her after a priest departed. The mans attempts to engage the girl and her discomfort were obvious. Philip, inexperienced with confronting such situations, felt an urge to intervene when the man became more intrusive, eventually offering the girl whiskey. Unsure of what to do, Philip watched as the situation escalated, feeling both anger and helplessness.